To celebrate every new year of observation
NASA / ESA takes Hubble telescope a new beautiful sky shot.
This year it was 24th birthday
Space Telescope published a snapshot of NGC 2174.
This Nebula, also known as the Monkey Head,
it is full of young stars shrouded in vibrant clouds of cosmic gas and dust.
Episode 73: Hubble returns to Monkey Head to celebrate his 24th birthday
Nebulae are popular targets of the Hubble Telescope.
Colorful gas sidings and brilliant bright stars create beautifully beautiful images.
Many of the most beautiful and popular Hubble images are nebulae.
Take, for example, the remarkable snapshot of The Ring Nebula published last year
or this beautifully fine image of the Horsehead Nebula
published on the 23rd Anniversary of Hubble.
In 2012, Hubble watched the Tarantula Nebula to celebrate its 22nd birthday
and for the 21st birthday he photographed the amazing cosmic rose Arp 273.
Now, to celebrate 24 years in orbit,
Hubble visited again part of NGC 2174 Nebula
better known as the Monkey Head.
Dark brown and rusty clouds of dust are billowing
on a light blue gas background.
These extraordinary shades were created by combining several Hubble images
taken through different color filters - reveal a wide range of colors that are normally invisible to the human eye.
It's not the first time the Hubble Telescope has focused on Monkey Head,
located 6400 light-years away in the constellation Orion.
NGC 2174 was observed by the telescope as early as 2011.
In this powerful stellar nursery, we find all the raw materials needed to produce stars.
But the recipe for baking new stars is not very effective
and most of the ingredients are wasted by
that the cloud of gas and dust gradually melts.
The pace of decay of this nebula is accelerated by the hot young stars,
that emit a fast stellar wind that blows the gas clouds.
Since its launch in 1990
Hubble Space Telescope watched a plethora of cosmic treasures.
Captures natural beauty
it represents a unique window to the universe and year after year it continues to amaze us
beautiful images and cutting-edge science.
Happy Birthday to Hubble's 24th Birthday!
Hubblecast is produced by ESA / Hubble and the European Southern Observatory in Germany.
The Hubble Telescope mission is a joint international project co-operated by NASA and the European Space Agency.
www.spacetelescope.org
ESA / Hubble Subtitles Text. Translation - Jan Veselý, Observatory and Planetarium in Hradec Králové